Node.js Interview Questions (Complete List)



What is event loop? What are the phases of event loop in detail?
What are the execution priorities of Event loop?
Is browser/client event loop different from Node event loop?
What is libuv in Node.js? How does it work?
What is thread pool in Node.js? How does it work?
How to prevent blocking of event loop and monitor event loop for starvation?
What is process.nextTick() in detail?
What is setImmediate()?
What are the different types of queues in Node.js, and what is its execution priority?
Where do process.nextTick() and setImmediate() fit inside the event loop?
setImmediate vs setTimeout — which is better?
Why is process.nextTick() dangerous?
Which one can cause starvation fastest — process.nextTick() or setImmediate()?
What are streams in Node.js?
What is back pressure in streams? How to handle it?
What is pipe() in Node.js?
How can streams cause memory leaks and how to handle it?
What kind of events are emitted by streams?
What is flowing mode and pause mode in streams?
What is highWaterMark?
What is Buffer and why is it needed?
How does Buffer work with streams?
What is Worker Thread in Node.js?
Difference between Worker Thread and Child Process.
Difference between Cluster and Worker Thread.
How to handle errors in Node.js applications in detail?
How can you do logging in a Node.js application with the help of Winston, Grafana, and Prometheus? Make a story around it for interview.
How to do profiling/monitoring in a Node.js application? And on what metrics?
How can we do performance optimisation of a Node.js application?
Tell me more about Grafana and Prometheus. How do they work together?
How can we do documentation of not just the application? For example, with Swagger or any other tool?
What are DDoS attacks in Node.js? And how to secure our application?
What is XSS attack? How to secure our app?
What is CSRF attack and how to secure applications from it?
What are other kinds of attacks from which we can secure our Node.js application?
What is rate limiting in a Node.js application? How can we implement it?
Tell me how you handled authentication and authorisation in your Node.js application with the help of refresh token and access token.
What is session-based authentication and token-based authentication? Which one is best for which application?
What are the ways to store tokens? Which is the most secure?
How can we store our password in a Node.js application?
What are different ways microservices communicate? How can we do real-time communication? And synchronous communication in microservices?
How to handle memory leaks in Node.js app? How does memory leak happen in Node.js?
How does garbage collection work for Node.js application?
What are different types of architecture patterns we can follow in Node.js apps?
What is the Circuit Breaker pattern?
What is routing and what are the different types of routing in Node.js apps?
What are middlewares and different types of middleware in Node.js apps?
Tell me about REST APIs and REST Principles?
What are the different types of status codes used in REST API in detail?
How can we transfer large files from UI to backend then back into cloud platform?
How can we store sensitive keys inside our app?